 ● Block Devices (RBD): 
   The Ceph Block Device (a.k.a., RBD) service provides resizable, 
   thin-provisioned block devices that can be snapshotted and cloned. 
   Ceph stripes a block device across the cluster for high performance. 
   Ceph supports both kernel objects (KO) and a QEMU hypervisor 
   that uses librbd directly--avoiding the kernel object overhead for virtualized systems.

 ● Object Storage (RGW): 
   The Ceph Object Storage (a.k.a., RGW) service provides RESTful APIs 
   with interfaces that are compatible with Amazon S3 and OpenStack Swift.

 ● Filesystem (CephFS): 
   The Ceph File System (CephFS) service provides a POSIX compliant filesystem 
   usable with mount or as a filesystem in user space (FUSE).

https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/architecture/#ceph-clients   
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ● librados 
   A C++ library and an API. There are bindings for Java, C, Python and PHP
   A Ceph Client uses librados to interact directly with OSDs in order to store and retrieve data. 

 ● RADOS
    Reliable Autonomic Distributed Object Store. 
    RADOS is the object store that provides a scalable service for variably-sized objects. 
    The RADOS object store is the core component of a Ceph cluster.    

 ● Ceph Block Device
 ● RADOS Block Device
 ● RBD
    Also called “RADOS Block Device” and RBD. 
    A software instrument that orchestrates the storage of block-based data in Ceph. 
    Ceph Block Device splits block-based application data into “chunks”. 
    RADOS stores these chunks as objects. 
    Ceph Block Device orchestrates the storage of those objects across the storage cluster.    

 ● RGW
    RADOS Gateway. Also called “Ceph Object Gateway”. 
    The component of Ceph that provides a gateway to both the Amazon S3 RESTful API and the OpenStack Swift API.

 ● Ceph OSD
    Ceph Object Storage Daemon. The Ceph OSD software, which interacts with logical disks (OSD). 

 ● OSD
    “OSD” means “Object Storage Device”, which refers to a physical or logical storage unit (for example: LUN)

 ● Bucket
    In the context of RGW, a bucket is a group of objects. 
    In a filesystem-based analogy in which objects are the counterpart of files, buckets are the counterpart of directories.

 ● BlueStore
    OSD BlueStore is a storage back end (the default) used by OSD daemons, and was designed specifically for use with Ceph. 
    BlueStore stores objects directly on raw block devices or partitions, 
    and does not interact with mounted file systems. 
    BlueStore uses RocksDB’s key/value database to map object names to block locations on disk.
    Ceph does not rely on any other conventional filesystem and directly manages HDDs and SSDs 
    with its own storage backend BlueStore

 ● CephFS
    The Ceph File System, or CephFS, is a POSIX-compliant file system built on top of Ceph’s distributed object store, RADOS.  

 ● Realm
    In the context of RADOS Gateway (RGW), a realm is a globally unique namespace that consists of one or more zonegroups.

 ● MDS
    The Ceph MetaData Server daemon. Also referred to as “ceph-mds”.     

 ● CRUSH
    Controlled Replication Under Scalable Hashing. The algorithm that Ceph uses to compute object storage locations    

 ● Placement Groups (PGs)
    Placement groups (PGs) are subsets of each logical Ceph pool. 
    Placement groups perform the function of placing objects (as a group) into OSDs. 
    Ceph manages data internally at placement-group granularity: this scales better 
    than would managing individual (and therefore more numerous) RADOS objects. 
    A cluster that has a larger number of placement groups (for example, 100 per OSD) 
    is better balanced than an otherwise identical cluster with a smaller number of placement groups.

    Ceph’s internal RADOS objects are each mapped to a specific placement group, 
    and each placement group belongs to exactly one Ceph pool.

 ● Pool
    A pool is a logical partition used to store objects.
    Each pool has a number of placement groups (PGs) within it. 
 


